(song playing)
AVM PRODUCTION
GIRL
CHITRABANI
I'm looking for the one in my heart
Because of him
My sky is full of stars at night
Flowers bloom in the morn
In the forest
I am looking for the one in my heart
In my heart, in my heart
It has been five years...
since our country has been independent.
The backdrop of our story...
is the worst chapter of our freedom
struggle... The Partition.
During the Partition, leaders
from India and Pakistan...
were given the responsibility
to divide the land.
One such political leader was
Santosh Samaddar.
He was appointed to look into
the interests of India.
Santosh Samaddar's house
was in our neighbourhood.
An over-smart boy called Nengti Dutta...
was given shelter
at Santosh Samaddar's house.
When he read Byomkesh's interview
in the newspaper...
Nengti came over
and got close to Byomkesh.
The boy was over-smart but intelligent.
Don't know why Byomkesh
indulges him.
You're quite good
at solving crime, Byomkesh.
But you need to understand
the criminal's mind better.
Why does someone become a murderer?
His social conditions...
You must understand these factors.
Check.
-You're an experienced player.
-Hmm.
-But you have the potential, Byomkesh.
-Really?
If you study enough,
you could be the Indian Sherlock Holmes.
Studying is most important, you see.
People stop studying,
so they can't get ahead in life.
How far have you studied, Nengti?
-Grade eight.
-Wow!
-That's enough.
-Really?
Yes. Formal education is nothing.
-Hmm.
-One must learn from life.
Right.
Hey, that was a good move.
Can I have a cigarette?
Certainly.
Here you go.
Great.
-A light, please.
-Yes.
How old are you, boy?
-I'm about to turn 18.
-Oh, not 18 yet?
And you're smoking with people
double your age?
-So what?
-Huh?
Isn't there a Sanskrit saying...
After 16, father and son become friends.
-Yes.
-Oh, father and son?
When the father becomes a friend,
why not you?
Check.
How do you smoke at home, Nengti?
How can I?
Aunty doesn't give me any money.
Too many people around.
-That's why you smoke here?
-I guess so.
-It's all cool abroad?
-I've heard the same.
-Do you have a problem?
-Not at all.
Hmmph!
-There goes your bishop, Byomkesh.
-Hmm.
Guess what,
a girl has come to stay with us.
She's what they call a sexy lady.
Hey, boy!
You think we're your buddies?
Ajit, you vowed to stay
a bachelor all your life.
How would you know
what sex appeal is?
-How would he know?
-Yeah.
If you see her,
your eyes will pop out!
So who's this sexy lady?
Uncle's friend's daughter.
Henna Mullick.
There's a sparkle in my eyes
Because of him
The amusing beauty
The plethora of colours
She's from East Pakistan.
Her parents died in a Hindu-Muslim riot.
She somehow managed to escape.
Uncle has given her shelter.
Just like me.
Santosh Samaddar is a wealthy businessman.
He was part of
the independence struggle.
Your uncle must be very fond of you.
We don't really talk much.
Who'd talk to an over smart boy like you?
He hardly speaks to anyone
at home, Ajit.
Why?
Uncle doesn't spend
much time at home.
He's mostly out for work.
Every Saturday he goes somewhere
after office.
And returns home on Monday after office.
I'm sure your aunt loves you very much.
She's usually calm but strict.
She and Uncle had a peaceful married life
for a few years.
Then Aunty's
obsessive-compulsive nature became worse.
She doesn't allow fish and meat
in the house, no servants either...
They just live in the same house.
Nothing else.
How long has it been this way?
About 10 years.
Santosh has two sons.
What are they like?
Jugal is the naive sort.
He writes poetry.
Uday is quick tempered.
He eats meat at the club
against his mother's will.
-Who does your aunt love more?
-Uday, I think.
You can bring your sister here.
Chingri?
She doesn't have the time.
She manages the household by herself.
Aunty spends most of her time
in the bathroom.
But she's very fond of her.
-How long have you and Chingri been here?
-Two years.
Our parents died of cholera.
Then Aunty brought us here.
So, it's Santosh, your aunt...
-...you, Chingri, Uday and Jugal.
-Yes.
-Does anyone else stay in the house?
-Who?
-Uncle's secretary, Ravi Verma.
I've heard he's from East Pakistan.
He's like Ajit.
Unmarried and lives alone.
He looks into the office
and household both.
Why am I...
-telling you all this?
-Why?
I think something bad might happen
very soon.
-Why do you suspect so?
-No reason. Just like that.
-Just like that?
-Just like that.
It always happens
in detective stories.
Wouldn't it be nice if it happens?
You can earn a buck.
That's right.
All India Radio, Kolkata.
It's June 20, Saturday.
Ramdulal Dey reading the news.
Today's breaking news.
The Jawaharlal Nehru government which won
the first elections completed one month.
You're a saviour, Satyabati!
Hmmph!
Bengali writers these days
have forgotten the language.
Just like our country after Independence,
they're doing whatever they want too.
A Pakistan Airlines airplane
flying from Chittagong to Kolkata...
crashed in the Bay of Bengal.
All passengers on board have died.
The pilot lost control
and caused the accident.
There, you see?
I was just talking about this.
Pilots are also doing as they please.
Uff!
Remember Satyendranath Dutta's
analogy about planes?
Yes, the ant who develops wings
before dying.
Do you know
who Parvati's brother was?
Huh?
Which Parvati?
Lord Shiva's wife,
daughter of the Himalayas.
-She had a brother?
-Hmm.
-His name was Mount Moinak.
-Wow.
In that era, mountains had wings.
-They could fly wherever they wanted to.
-I see.
Lord Indra, vexed at this,
burnt their wings with thunder.
Mount Moinak was the only one
who escaped.
Then he hid in the ocean
where Lord Rama had built his bridge.
Sometimes he takes a peek above water
and goes back in.
Like a fugitive!
Couldn't Lord Indra, king of the gods,
catch Moinak?
Indra was the king of gods,
not the truth seeker.
Who's calling now?
Hello?
Hello, Ajit?
Please come over with Byomkesh now.
Henna Mullick fell off the terrace
and died.
Huh?
Yes, please hurry!
I told you!
When I heard about the family from the boy
I knew something's off.
Henna Mullick fell off the terrace
and died.
-Let's go.
-What do you mean?
Did Santosh call you?
It's Saturday.
So Santosh won't to be home today.
And Nengti is a family friend too,
so we can go.
Oh, so you will go
to that brat's house?
-Of course, and you'll come too.
-Huh?
We're leaving, Satya.
Satyabati, he called that
brat a family friend! Damn it!
-Sir.
-Yes.
-Please sign.
-Here?
Yes.
The house is being repaired?
AK Ray?
How are you?
Gosh! Byomkesh!
What brings you here?
Well, Nengti over there.
-Yes.
-He called me.
Ajit, come here.
He's my friend from college,
Atul Krishna Ray, aka...
-AK Ray.
He's my friend Ajit Bandopadhyay.
-Hello.
So...
Who informed you?
At 6:30 p.m. Santosh's secretary,
Mr. Ravi Verma...
-Hello.
-He called the police station.
-I came here as soon as I got his call.
-I see.
Let's go outside, shall we?
Yes, let's go.
-Come.
-Hmm.
-Check this side properly.
-Yes, sir.
There's repair work going on.
There are scaffolding
on the other two sides but none this side.
What do you think, doctor?
Cause of death is the broken vertebrae
near her neck from the fall.
Approximate time of death?
About two and a half hours ago.
Two and a half hours means...
-At around 6:15 p.m.
-At 6:15 p.m.
Henna used to go to the terrace
every evening.
I think she went today as well
and then...
You killed Henna.
-What? Say that again.
-You killed Henna
-You killed her.
-Brother!
Uday! Uday, what nonsense is this?
-Brother...
What do you think?
Accident?
Look, Byomkesh, that's what I think but...
Let me tell you something.
Something’s not right about this family.
I know this much.
Uday, no one killed Henna.
She fell off the terrace and died.
-Go to your room. Jugal, let go!
-Brother.
Have you taken everyone's statement?
Yes, everyone's except Santosh's,
the head of the family.
Apparently, he doesn't come home
on weekends.
-Okay.
-Hmm.
-Let's go inside.
-Let's.
You killed Henna.
-Let go of each other!
-I’m begging you!
Please go to your room, brother.
-Please, come on.
-Go to your room...
Hello, my name is Byomkesh Bakshi.
You alleged that your brother
killed Henna Mullick.
Are there any grounds for your claim?
Uday, go to your room.
Go to your room, Uday.
To your room.
Come on!
Have you searched Henna's room,
AK Ray?
I have. It's quite ordinary.
There isn't much furniture.
Any letters?
I haven't checked thoroughly
but I will on my way out.
-Do you want to take a look?
-Yes, I do.
-Hmm.
-I will...
Hello.
I came to your house almost uninvited.
Actually, I am Nengti's friend.
He called for me.
I am Byomkesh Bakshi.
You probably don't know me.
But I've heard of you.
Actually, Aunty was feeling scared,
so I called for him.
Hmm.
Are you done here?
We have to move the body.
But you have to identify the body.
Hmm.
Let's go.
Father...
Mother...
Daughter...
All of them had accidental deaths.
Strange destiny.
May I have a word with you?
What do you want to ask?
What is Henna's father's name?
Kamal Mullick.
Was he your friend?
Yes...
I knew him for nearly 15 years.
I had to travel all over the country
on business.
I still have to.
I met Kamal Mullick in Dhaka.
Then we grew closer.
So you must've seen Henna
even before she came to Kolkata?
Several times.
I've known her since
she was three or four.
I see.
Did Henna's living here
stir things up in your family?
Yes, my wife...
...had objected.
What?
Go.
This is your room.
Go, sit down.
Chameli...
This is Henna.
From now on, she will live here.
Do you want to turn our home
into guest house?
I won't tolerate all this.
Come, Chingri.
-Come!
-That hurts...
Henna is from Pakistan.
She doesn't know the customs here.
My wife kept her out of the kitchen.
I arranged for her food
from a hotel nearby.
Did anyone else object to her?
No one else would dare to.
Are you certain that Henna didn't interact
with anyone else in the house?
She wasn't forbidden
from talking to others but she...
wasn't very social.
She couldn't handle the shock
of her parents' death.
She used to keep to herself.
Hardly left her room.
Did you know that Henna...
used to go to the terrace
every evening?
No, I just found out.
How did you get news of her death?
-A phone call.
-Who called you?
-From a friend's guardian.
-Who is this person?
That's a personal matter.
How did this person get the news?
-I called.
-Okay.
So you know this certain someone?
Yes.
I had shared their phone number
only to Ravi.
Tell me, Santosh...
Where were you at the time?
Is it really necessary, Inspector?
Forgive me but I'm still doubtful
about Henna Mullick's death.
But everyone is saying
she carelessly fell off the terrace.
Yes but there's always the possibility
that someone pushed her.
So it's very important for us
to know everything.
Who would murder Henna?
And why?
We don't know that for sure yet but...
the investigation is on.
I'm sure we'll come to know.
Moreover, Byomkesh will investigate
in his own way.
Very well.
Then let me tell you where I was.
Look, this is my personal secret.
Make sure word doesn't get out.
Be rest assured.
-Okay, let us go outside, Ajit.
-No, please stay.
It's good you're here.
Byomkesh, I'm appointing you
to protect the my family's interests .
Okay.
Look.
I'm no saint...
and I blame no one but myself for it.
Although ethical or not,
good or bad...
"There is nothing either good or bad...
but thinking makes it so."
"Hamlet."
William Shakespeare.
Of my many sins, one is...
I...
like listening
to devotional songs.
For a few days,
hide your love...
Sukumari is a devotional singer.
Singing is business for her.
Ten years ago, I was smitten by her voice.
I don't have a happy married life.
I was attracted to her.
We gradually...
became more intimate.
You know
I'm very deeply involved in politics.
I've fought in the war for freedom ...
Served time in prison...
I've been beaten up by the police...
I've donated loads of money
to revolutionaries...
I've served as a messenger between
the two countries during the Partition.
I have as many foes as friends
in politics.
That's why, I rented a house
under a false name for Sukumari.
We decided that she would continue
singing from her own house.
But we would spend the weekends together
in the secret house.
I go there after office on Saturdays...
and on Mondays, I go to office
directly from there.
I've been going there secretly
for the last 10 years.
And you did the same today.
Hmm.
What time did you get the call?
At around eight p.m.
I came here right after.
This is my alibi.
Aren't there any servants
in your secret house?
No, I didn't hire anyone on purpose.
Every Saturday afternoon...
Sukumari cleans the house herself.
After I leave for office on Mondays,
she locks up and leaves.
For the rest of the week,
the house is locked.
Why do you have a telephone
in that house?
Sukumari needs it.
It's a private number.
You won't find it in the directory.
And except for your friend's guardian
no one else has that number?
No.
And she would never tell anyone.
Sukumari?
She won't tell anyone either.
Why do you have so much faith
in Sukumari?
I give her Rs. 1000 a month.
She's not stupid.
She won't dig her own grave.
What were you doing
when you received the call today?
I was listening to her songs.
Very well.
That's all for today.
Will you be going back now...
No, I won't go back.
I'll stay here.
Okay.
Oh and one more thing.
It'll be pointless to try and
find the secret house.
Oh, no, no.
What are you saying?
We're not curious
about your private life at all.
But I have something to say.
Santosh, I want to speak
to Sukumari once.
I'll give you her address.
Byomkesh, will you represent me
before the police?
Yes, of course.
Please excuse me now.
I'm feeling very tired.
He doesn't look tired at all.
"Forgive my weariness, Lord..."
Byomkesh.
It was very vain of him to reveal
his secrets like that.
Say what you will
but the truth sounds bitter.
Why?
-This gentleman's honesty is his identity.
-Oh.
-AK Ray.
-Yes?
Let's check Henna Mullick's room.
-Let's go.
-Come on.
Henna's clothes.
Wow.
Looks like Henna had fancy taste.
Was the door open when you first arrived?
-No, it was locked.
-Okay.
-I forgot to tell you something, Byomkesh.
-Yes?
We found a bag next to Henna's mat
on the terrace.
These keys were in the bag.
Is the room always locked?
Looks like it.
Yes?
Henna never left her room open
when she stepped out.
She would lock her room
whenever she went anywhere.
Is that so?
Did she always do that or
was it because of something that happened?
From the very beginning.
What are the fives keys for?
-One is for the door.
-Hmm.
Two keys... see those trunks there?
-Two for those.
And the remaining two?
I can't figure it out yet.
-These drawers weren't locked?
-No, they were unlocked. No keys
What do you think
these two keys are for?
Maybe these keys aren't used anymore.
Sometimes, one loses the lock
but the keys remain in the ring.
True.
-Here you go.
-Hmm.
Do you know what these keys are for, Ravi?
Sorry, this is the first time
I'm in this room.
I don't know anything.
-For the first time?
-Yes.
Oh...
Are you looking for something, Byomkesh?
This rose is fresh.
-Ravi.
-Yes, sir?
Is there a rose bush
in the garden?
Yes.
What do you think, Ajit?
Someone must have dropped it
through the window.
CHITRABANI
Hmm, I think so too
but the question is...
Was Henna in the room at the time or not?
Do you know anything
about this rose, Ravi?
-AK Ray, I'll check the book shelf...
-Sure.
-Ajit.
-Hmm?
-This is Henna Mullick.
-No.
It's her, the photo is yellow
because it's old.
It's because the photo is old.
She must be at least 25 years old.
This can't be Henna Mullick.
Maybe her mother...
Do you know her?
AK Ray, keep this photo.
We have to show it to Santosh to know
if this is Henna or her mother.
Okay.
Did Henna get any letters, Ravi?
I'm usually at the office
when the mail is delivered.
I don't know.
Nengti and Chingri would know.
-Ajit.
-Yes?
PADMA PUBLISHERS DHAKA
Dhaka?
Dhaka...
Shrouded...
-AK Ray.
-Yes.
Let's take a look at the terrace.
-And Ravi?
-Hmm?
Please don't come along
because you can't help at all.
Come, Ajit.
Please.
(song playing)
AVM PRODUCTION
GIRL
CHITRABANI
In the forest
I am looking for the one in my heart
In my heart, in my heart
Here.
-Here you go.
-Yes.
There's a sparkle in my eyes
Because of him
The amusing beauty
The plethora of colours
The eternal black and white
Just because he is with me
So the terrace door
can be locked from both sides.
-AK Ray, was the door locked when you came?
-Unlocked.
...the southern winds...
I am looking for the one in my heart
In my heart, in my heart
-Byomkesh.
-Hmm?
This boundary wall isn't that low.
I mean, even if Henna leaned over...
the chances of her falling
are low.
Unless someone pushed her
from behind.
Byomkesh.
-Hmm?
-Henna's mat and bag are over there.
This isn't a mat, AK Ray.
It's meant specially for praying.
SIX
His words...
Sways me in melancholy
In melancholy...
SIX
He hides in my work
to distract me
Because he is mine forever
He gives my heart wings
-Let's go downstairs.
-Okay.
FIVE SIX SEVEN
In my heart, in my heart
I am looking for the one in my heart
(inaudible conversation)
Come.
"Quiet the voluble poet for now, my dear!"
-AK Ray.
-Yes?
We're leaving now.
We'll go to the police station tomorrow.
Sure.
-Let's go, Ajit.
-Okay.
I am looking for the one in my heart
In my heart, in my heart
How will you proceed?
Don't know yet but something's
definitely wrong about that family.
This Henna Mullick sounds very mysterious.
When there's a queen bee
among so many young men...
a competition is only natural.
True, but murder...
What's the motive?
-You know what I think, Satya?
-Hmm?
Something else is about to happen
in that house very soon.
What?
I don't know but...
something.
When did you find out?
How could we know?
We stay on the first floor.
You stay on this floor.
Didn't you realise?
I just came to know
in the morning.
Who do you think
could have started the fire?
All the doors downstairs are locked
at night.
Hmm.
Was the window open?
I don't know.
This was under the staircase.
The petrol's over.
Please hold this.
-I need to talk to you, Nengti.
-Yes.
I can't answer any more questions.
You're the detective.
You'll get paid if you can solve the case.
So figure it out.
What do you want to know?
The day Henna fell to her death
from the terrace...
at that time...
Where were you and what were you doing?
-I was out for a smoke.
-Hey!
Is that all you do?
Over-smart character!
Did you see Henna at the time?
Yes.
When I left a little before 5:30 p.m.
I saw Henna sitting in her room and...
sewing handkerchiefs.
When did you return?
Around 6:15 p.m.
I came back to see Henna lying dead!
Hey!
Chingri!
Madam!
Uday!
Did you see anyone in the hall
when you left?
Yes, Uday.
Did Henna receive any letters, Nengti?
No.
She didn't.
Whenever the mail arrived, I received it.
I've never seen any letters for Henna.
Was Henna in touch
with anyone from outside?
No.
I didn't tell you about something.
Thought it's insignificant.
I'll decide if it's insignificant.
Tell me everything, Nengti.
After 10 or 12 days
since Henna arrived...
I used to notice something
in the evenings...
A cab.
It used to stop by our house sometimes.
A man sitting inside
would play the mouth organ.
He would return after a few minutes again.
And Henna would leave
10 minutes later.
Did you ever see the face
of the mouth organ player?
-No.
-No? Useless!
Then?
-Then all quit for 10 or 12 days.
-"Quiet".
Henna didn't leave the house.
Then the same thing happened again
after a few days.
So this was a signal?
I think so.
Seems like an affair.
The next time it happened,
I followed her...
But the cab left.
So you didn't get to know
where she goes?
No.
When would Henna return?
-In an hour.
-When was the last time she left home?
About 10 or 12 days ago.
That means it happened every 10 or 12 days.
I don't have time
to keep tabs on Henna all day.
I just noticed this a few times.
Let's go, why are you...
Disgusting!
So...
Got to know anything?
The mouth organ part seems dubious to me.
That means Henna knew someone
in Kolkata.
Anyway, one thing is clear.
That Henna's death was not an accident.
It's a murder.
But who's this mystery man?
Who do you think?
The person who burnt all the documents.
Maybe... maybe not.
The motive for murder is not clear.
Well it's...
You know...
What do you mean?
-I mean... that!
-Sexual jealousy?
-Yes.
-Why didn't you just say so?
It could be sexual jealousy but...
Maybe not.
It's not enough of a motive for murder.
Although the motive behind
setting the room on fire is clear.
And what's that?
There's something very significant
in Henna's room...
which someone wants to burn.
-But we didn't find anything.
-That was just once.
We could have found something
if we searched again.
Tell me...
-What significant thing could it be?
-I don't know.
But it's something small...
I mean some ring, or piece of paper
or something like that...
-We would find it if it was big.
-Wait, wait, wait.
Didn't you find some paper
in Henna's room?
Yes, where did I keep that?
Where did I keep it, Satya?
-Check inside the book.
-Hmm.
-This?
-That's it, yes!
See it.
"A glimpse of your shimmering smile
Stabs like a dagger to the heart.
Your red, red lips
Can punish without fault."
Hmm... who wrote this strange poem?
There's only one poet
in that house.
Jugal!
The postmortem report says
it's an accidental death.
So there's no point
in further investigation.
-Sir.
-Hmm.
Do you think so too, AK Ray?
Not at all, Byomkesh.
But what can I do?
It's an order from the higher authorities.
We can't continue the investigation.
What about the fire?
That's just a coincidence.
There's no proof that someone
set fire to the room.
Oh, that reminds me.
Santosh has confirmed that...
this is Henna's mother.
I had a little something
to tell you, brother.
I was saying...
Please carry on your investigation.
And if you need any assistance...
I mean...
I'm there.
Moreover, Santosh appointed you, isn't it?
Don't know
if he'd still want me to be on the case.
Let me go visit him.
-Come, Ajit.
-Hmm, let's go.
-Bye, AK Ray.
-Bye.
Goodbye.
The fact that Henna's death
is accidental...
brings me some peace.
But I'm not quite sure
if it was an accident.
Why?
Did you find any clue?
All the papers in Henna's room
getting burnt...
doesn't seem normal to me.
That's true.
Anything else?
Santosh, did you know that
every few days...
a cab would pass your house
with an unknown mouth organ player?
A few minutes after the cab left,
Henna would go out of the house.
As far as I know,
Henna doesn't know anyone here.
Might be someone from Pakistan.
Maybe he would visit Kolkata for work
every 10 or 12 days and meet Henna.
Hmm.
That possible.
What would you like to do?
I'd like to interrogate everyone
in the house.
See, when the police has closed the case...
why bother...
But don't worry, you'll get your fees.
Monetary gain does not gratify
my mind, Santosh.
And it's not in my nature to get more fees
by working for longer.
I simply want to unearth the truth.
Yes but I'm not interested
in the truth anymore.
So you're asking me not to show
any interest in this case either?
I said I have no interest.
I won't object if you're still interested.
You can carry on with the investigation.
I'll tell everyone at home.
Very well.
-Thank you very much.
-Hmm.
Let's go, Ajit.
Byomkesh, I just can't understand
one thing...
Why did the police suddenly give up?
Maybe they didn't find
anything significant.
The police can't look into
just this one case.
What are you planning?
Ajit, there are so many things
in that house.
Why would someone burn the documents
in Henna's room?
Hmm...
Something's wrong, Ajit.
-Let's go.
-Yes.
Byomkesh?